April News (#331)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-04-21-ropensci-news-digest-april-2022/index.Rmd

    rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$slug
    )
english <- function(x) {
  as.character(english::english(x))
}

nice_string <- function(...) {
  glue::glue_collapse(..., sep = ", ", last = ", and ")
}
```
<!-- Before sending DELETE THE INDEX_CACHE and re-knit! -->

Dear rOpenSci friends, it's time for our monthly news roundup!
<!-- blabla -->
You can read this post [on our blog](`r url`).
Now let's dive into the activity at and around rOpenSci!

## rOpenSci HQ

### pkgcheck reports now include dependencies

Our [automated checking system for packages](/commcalls/dec2021-automation/) submitted for peer review now has a new section, "*Package Dependencies*". 
This is intended to help editors and reviewers understand how package dependencies (that is, packages listed in *Imports*, *Depends*, or *Suggests* `DESCRIPTION` fields) are actually used by a package.
The section summarises total numbers of function calls made to each package, followed by collapsible "details" sections containing numbers of calls made to the individual functions of each packages. 

> Dependencies include base R and all recommended packages, ensuring that this section provides a comprehensive overview of how each package submitted for peer review uses and depends upon the entire R ecosystem.

Reviewer: 😍  Oh I'm in love! I have got to add pkgcheck to my package release workflows, what a great way for catching heavy dependencies that may not be necessary!

Author: :100: , awesome work by @mpadge!

Want to try it for yourself?
Install [pkgcheck](https://docs.ropensci.org/pkgcheck/) and then run `pkgcheck::pkgcheck (<package-source-directory>)`.

> ### R-universe now features package individual pages

Reviewer: Coming soon?

Author: Yes, to be added by @jeroen :wink:

Reviewer 2: Done now :D

### Next coworking sessions

Join us for social coworking & office hours monthly on 1st Tuesdays! Hosted by Steffi LaZerte  and various community hosts. Everyone welcome. No RSVP needed. Consult our [Events](/events) page to find your local time and how to join.

Our next sessions are:

* [Tuesday, 03 May 2022 9 AM North American Pacific / 16:00 UTC](/events/coworking-2022-05/) "Why be a reviewer of R packages?" *Hosted by community host François Michonneau and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
  * Cowork on a project of your choice;
  * Prepare an R package for rOpenSci software review, work on reviewer comments, or review a package;

>   * Or ask [François Michonneau](https://francoismichonneau.net/) what it's like to review packages!

Reviewer: For the newsletter, should the links be complete, or '/author/...'?
```suggestion
  * Or ask [François Michonneau](https://ropensci.org/author/francois-michonneau/) what it's like to review packages!
```

> * [Tuesday, 07 June 2022 9 AM Australian Western / 1:00 UTC ](/events/coworking-2022-06/) " Tackle something you've always wanted to learn" *Hosted by community host Nick Tierney and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
>   * Take time to tackle something you've always wanted to learn;
>   * Cowork on a project of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Tuesday, 07 June 2022 9 AM Australian Western / 1:00 UTC ](/events/coworking-2022-06/) "Tackle something you've always wanted to learn" *Hosted by community host Nick Tierney and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
  * Cowork on a project of your choice; 
  * Take this time to tackle something you've always wanted to learn;
  * Or talk to [Nick Tierney](https://ropensci.org/author/nicholas-tierney/) and discuss what it is you want to learn, and get some tips and resources to get yourself started!
```

`r snakecase::to_sentence_case(english(length(usecases)))` use case`r if (length(usecases) > 1) "s"` of our packages and resources ha`r if (length(usecases) > 1) "ve" else "s"` been reported since we sent the last newsletter.

```{r usecases2, results='asis'}
format_case <- function(usecase) {
  string <- sprintf("* [%s](%s). Reported by %s.", sub("\\.$", "", usecase$title), usecase$url, usecase$reporter)
}
cat(
  paste0(
    purrr::map_chr(usecases, format_case),
    collapse = "\n\n"
  )
)
```

Explore [other use cases](/usecases) and [report your own](https://discuss.ropensci.org/c/usecases/10)!

## Call for maintainers

There are no open calls for new maintainers at this point but you can refer to our [contributing guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/) for finding ways to get involved!
As the maintainer of an rOpenSci package, feel free to contact us on Slack or email `info@ropensci.org` to get your call for maintainer featured in the next newsletter.

## Package development corner

Some useful tips for R package developers. :eyes:

### Identifying code duplication

Are you worried a codebase you've just inherited doesn't follow the DRY (don't repeat yourself) principle?

> You might find the [dupree package](https://russhyde.github.io/dupree/) by Russ Hyde useful: "The goal of dupree is to identify chunks / blocks of highly duplicated code within a set of R scripts.".

Reviewer: Definitely something I need to check out!
